Ready?
- One, two...
There's nothing wrong with the engine.
Roger.
And no issues with the fuel line.
Understood.
Ensign Shikishima, right?
I was a mechanic at the
Tsukuba Naval Air Corps.
Tachibana.
We were there at the same time.
Tachibana?
Oh-
Of course, yes.
I owe you, and your men.
This runway of ours is
chock full of holes,
and you were still able to land safely.
You haven't lost your
touch since we last met.
Well, training for dogfights was simple.
It's a different in a real Kamikaze.
Yes it is.
Lucky you got this
extra chance to rest, huh?
It's strange.
Your rig, we looked it over.
And not a single one of us
could pin down any issues.
What are you trying to say?
I'm on your side.
We need more people like you.
I just don't see what the point is.
We know how this war's gonna
end, so why "die honorably" now?
Get the guns!
- Yes, Sir!
- Roger!
Is it a raid?
- I don't know!
- What do you mean?
We can't see, it's too dark!
Is it the Americans again?
Taki!
Get a light on it!
Roger!
- Taki!
- Taki-san.
What the hell is that thing?
It's called Godzilla.
- What's Godzilla?
- One of the locals told me.
When deep sea fish float like today,
Godzilla is near.
G-Godzilla?
We're done for.
Go!
- Take cover!
- Go! Get in the trenches!
Now!
Go on!
It's gonna eat us!
Hurry! Hurry!
Come on.
What the hell is that thing?
No one knows what it is.
I have an idea.
What is it?
Think you can reach your
twenty millimeter gun?
You're the only one
who knows how to shoot.
We're just mechanics.
It's gigantic.
What if it doesn't work
and it just makes it angrier?
A twenty millimeter gun's
enough to kill anything!
Now go, hurry.
It's still heading this way.
Hurry!
Get out there!
Go!
Hurry!
Get in.
What, does he need an invitation?
Come on! Shoot!
It's still coming!
What do we do, Tachibana?!
We need ammo!
Go, get some rounds.
You idiots!
Don't shoot!
What are you doing?
Cease fire now!
Go! Get out!
Get out! Fall back!
Tachibana!
Shoot it!
It's coming this way!
Tomita!
I'll draw it this way.
Shoot to kill!
You boys didn't deserve this.
Hey.
Yeah, that's right, take a look.
Everyone is dead!
Huh?
All because you didn't shoot!
Goddamn it!
You.
Hey!
Move.
Make sure it's not too loose.
Got it.
Yeah, that should hold. Okay, lets go.
I know.
Koichi? Is that you?
Oh-Sumiko.
I thought you were dead.
Weren't you a Kamikaze pilot?
You have the nerve to come
back and show your face here?
You disgraced us all!
Take a look around.
Do you see what happened to us
because of cowards like you?
If you'd all done what
you were supposed to do,
I'd still have my kids.
Are my parents alive?
Do you know if they made it out?
Everyone's dead.
During the air raids,
there was fire covering this whole block.
Your parents are dead.
Along with everyone.
Including my children,
who met the very same fate.
MY DEAREST SON, KOICHI...
"Return to us alive."
Isn't that what you wanted?
How is it?
- Would you care to take a look?
- Good to see you.
Stop! Stop, thief!
Out of my way!
Move! Move!
Let me through!
Ah!
- Grab that woman! Right there! Quick!
- Hold on.
Take this!
- What?
- Wait! That's her! Stop right there!
- Catch that woman!
- Get back here!
Down there! That's it!
There! That's the woman!
Go left, I'll cut her off. Move!
What are you doing? Out of my way!
What on Earth?
- Good evening. Is your family alright?
- Oh, yes, we're doing fine.
- Good.
- Well, considering.
- Give everyone my best.
- Yes, good to see you.
Hello.
See you later. I'll come
by tomorrow, too. Thank you.
- Okay.
- Take care of yourself. Bye.
Bye.
Hello again!
Thank goodness. Where were you?
Hey, it's your own fault.
I couldn't just go out there.
Too many lookie-loo's.
So you've been here
watching the whole time?
Yeah, and I was starting to get
sick of waiting for you to move.
Wasn't I?
I bet you're hungry now, aren't you?
I thought you'd just leave
her there. Why didn't you?
Hey!
I couldn't leave a baby alone in
the middle of a place like that.
Oh?
Oh really?
Could you please stop following me?
But we'll die on the street
if you leave us out here alone.
Why would I care?
After you're done eating,
would you please leave?
Oh, you hear that?
He's so mean and scary, isn't he?
Where's your husband, anyway?
Did he fight in the war?
What a question.
Does it look like I have a husband?
What?
Whose kid is she?
Does it matter?
Of course it matters.
It was during one of the air raids.
Her dying mother asked me to take her.
So,
are you saying
you're not related to her?
No. So what?
Are you insane?
You have no business trying to take
care of a baby in the state you're in.
You're one to talk. You
couldn't leave her either.
Hey!
What's her name?
AKIKO
And what do I call you?
Noriko.
Why do you go around dressed like that?
You look like you spend
your days begging for money.
Am I supposed to be a whore instead?
That's not what I said, but
we're all trying to survive.
If you were, I wouldn't
think any less of you.
Any family?
Your parents?
Yeah.
They were killed.
In the air raids.
So you're by yourself now, as well.
Huh?
What?
You can't stay here.
Are you kidding me?
Hey!
What's the story, huh?
What story?
Don't play dumb with me.
That mother and child
you took in last night.
What, so now you think
you're some kind of saint?
I didn't even want them to stay.
What difference does that
make? You didn't kick them out.
It's too late to play the hero.
I see right through you.
Don't bother asking me for help.
Wait.
The girl.
Do you know if she can breastfeed?
No, she's-
The child
she isn't the mother.
What are you saying?
Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Hm?
Mm.
There you go.
If you keep feeding her like
this she'll die of malnutrition.
Right?
Ah.
So you take in a child, but you
have no idea how to care for it.
What were you thinking?
I'm not sure.
This isn't for either of you.
Adults can survive on anything.
Use it to make gruel for the baby.
Ah well.
There goes all of my prized white rice.
Pains in the neck, those two.
Agh. Damn it.
It's pouring out there.
I'm soaked.
Did you find any work?
Well,
actually,
I did find something but-
Well that's good news.
The money's not bad, either.
Here, look.
See what it says there?
There's an advance of three thousand yen.
That's great isn't it?
It can't be real though.
You remember that other job
where all our rice got stolen?
It's not like that.
Things are different this time.
How can you know that for sure, though?
'Cause this one's got
the government backing it.
And... it pays this well for a good reason.
What reason?
During the war,
both the US and Imperial
navies laid thousands of mines, and
they need us to clear them out.
They're offering so much money
because
this work,
it carries
a certain kind of risk.
Listen to what you're saying!
You can't do this,
you just survived a war.
It's not exactly a choice!
We won't make it if
something doesn't change.
Akiko will starve to death.
I understand that, but,
I can't let you go.
Look.
This'll bring in money.
And with it, we can buy
American powdered milk, or anything else.
If that means that I-
I can't let that happen to you!
Listen to me.
Just cause this is risky,
it doesn't mean that I'll die.
This isn't like the
war, it's not hopeless.
Anyway,
they said they use boats that are
specially made to evade magnetic mines.
This is it?
This is specially made?
Hey there. Are you our new sharpshooter?
Shikishima, yes.
Ex-Navy?
- I flew a fighter actually.
- What the hell?
What do we do with this guy?
- An airman? You saw action didn't you?
- He's a military castoff.
Not worth anything to us.
Are you disappointed
that we're using this old thing?
Well, during the course of the war,
the US and Imperial navies laid nearly
sixty thousand mines of all sorts off
the coasts of Japan, but
the ones that worry us are
the American magnetic kind.
If a vessel made out
of metal goes anywhere
near one of those, a blast is triggered.
Ah.
- Hence the wood.
- Mhm.
You catch on pretty quick.
Most of what we can handle
are the standard moored mines.
But with the magnetic ones,
wooden boats are the best countermeasure.
Noda's the name.
During the war, I worked for a
while designing weapons for the navy.
That's our captain,
- Akitsu, and that's Mizushima there.
- You can call this one
"Kid" and he's "Doc."
I'm not very fond of that
nickname, and you know that.
And I'm way too old for "kid" now, okay?
Sure, but seeing as you're the
greenest one, you're still "Kid."
Agh, yeah I know. I didn't get to
fight in the war like you, I was too
young.
Our minesweeper here is
called the Shinseimaru,
that's the Kaishinmaru parked there.
The mines we're after are tethered to
the seabed like balloons on strings.
So we run a cable between our two
boats, with a cutter in the middle.
All we have to do is clip the tether,
and the mine floats to the surface.
Then, we hit it with this.
Da-da-da-da-da- dada!
Let me show you.
This one's a little bit squirrelly.
Could you let me try?
You think you can handle her?
Here.
Since we're rocking like this,
I'm trying to account for how the
waves are also moving the target.
Whoa- hoa!
Nice one!
I learned how to shoot down fighters.
But I never saw real
action, just simulations.
What?
You never saw any real action?
I guess Shikishima is
just as green as me, huh?
Hey. Learn how to fly a plane
like he can, then we can talk.
If I'd fought in the war I
know I'd have been useful too.
Ah.
If only it had just kept on going.
Don't say anything like that ever again.
It was just a joke.
Use your brain, kid.
- Fall back!
- Stop it there!
- Fire!
- Fall back!
Fire!
- Help!
- Fall back!
Go, go!
You alright?
Oh.
Another nightmare?
Nightmare?
That's right.
I was
dreaming.
What if...
You, here.
That's the dream?
I don't understand you.
- Are you sure-
- Is this?
We're in Japan, right?
Right?
I made it back alive. I came back right?
- I made it back alive, right?
- Get off!
Right, I know.
I know.
You've built a real nice place here.
I'd say it's worth every penny saved.
Mmm.
- Mmm.
- Would would you like more?
- Oh, ho ho.
- Ah.
Yes please. Thanks.
Ah.
- How about a photo?
- Ah.
Oh?
- Ooh.
- Oh no.
- Please don't waste your film on me.
- Ahh,
look at that smile!
Hold it.
- Hold it.
- Very nice.
And-
- Thank you.
- Watch out, Doc.
- Don't go falling for Noriko now.
- He's right.
Hey, you shouldn't joke like that.
Noriko's a married woman after all.
Everyone, please that's enough!
I'm not his wife.
She's not?
Yeah, she just showed up one day.
She had nowhere else to go.
So,
I let her stay.
And the little girl?
She brough Akiko with her.
But they're not related
to each other. Not really.
She was an orphan that
Noriko took in during the air raids.
You all found each other.
What a lovely story.
That's just sort of how it went.
Daddy.
Akiko.
Yeah?
I told you.
You know I'm not your father.
Oh, Shikishima.
- That's awful. How could you say that?
- What a hurtful thing to say.
Here's the thing:
Fate has brought you together as a family.
You need to find a way to accept that.
That's right, and now I need a hug.
- Yeah.
- That's enough!
I don't want that.
Why not?
Welcome home.
I just got back myself.
What are those clothes you have on?
How do I look?
I went to Ginza and found myself a job.
Is this cause I don't
provide enough for you?
It's not that, I just always
wanted to be self-sufficient.
And you'll never find a wife
if I'm always around.
And, besides.
Ginza's come such a
long way since the war.
This feels so sudden.
I don't really think it is.
Akiko!
What will Akiko do?
Who's going to be here to look after her,
while you go to work in Ginza?
We talked, and Sumiko said
she'd be happy to watch her.
Uh- Oh.
She seemed very excited.
She said "I've already
raised three, why not?"
I see.
Well.
Alright then.
Good, I'll go get Akiko.
Pacific Fleet Destroyer USS Lancaster was
attacked and disabled by an unknown enemy.
No further detail is known at this time.
Intercepted urgent distress call from
Pacific Fleet attack sub USS Redfish,
reporting pursuit of massive undersea
organism through Pacific waters.
After successfully photographing target,
Redfish made contact and was destroyed.
Mayday, mayday. Going down. Wreck
reconnaissance picked up high
radio-isotope emissions where hull
collied with enemy creature skin.
The colossal sea creature is projected
to reach the Japanese archipelago within
a few weeks.
Its recorded movement suggests
a course to the Kanto region, specifically.
General Douglas MacArthur
commented on the developing situation,
stating with regret that
recent Soviet movements
prevent any US military assistance.
He instead calls on Japan
to begin strengthening
its own security forces,
in preparation for potential
contact with the beast.
What could do this?
Some kind of whale?
Or giant shark?
Shark or whale couldn't do that.
No, this is something else.
Maybe a new Soviet weapon?
Does that look like weapon damage to you?
Then what else could it be?
Well,
- My guess would be an enormous creature.
- Oh, come on.
Your crazy theories
aren't any better than ours.
I was skeptical
until I got a closer look at this.
Godzilla.
Look! Starboard side!
Huh?
I saw deep sea fish
floating just like this,
the day a monster attacked Odo island.
A monster?
Like what?
It was like a dinosaur.
That over the years had
turned into something else.
I remember hearing that
the locals called it Godzilla.
Godzilla?
Come on.
Don't be ridiculous.
- I bet you just saw a tank that you-
- You can believe me or not.
It still doesn't change the fact that
Godzilla wiped out everyone on Odo Island.
Wait a minute.
I thought the Americans
took out that garrison.
The US island-hopping forces
never targeted Odo.
At that point, it was only being used
as a repair base for kamikaze planes.
Wait, Shikishima.
Does that mean you were a kamikaze pilot?
If this is the same
Godzilla I saw back then,
and it can do this,
then it's even bigger than before.
Just hold on second.
Why are we here?
I don't see how the four
of us can do anything.
I mean how...
they don't honestly expect us
to fight that thing in this.
They obviously do.
What?
But we don't stand a
chance! Not against that!
A big US cruiser couldn't take it down.
We're a couple of planks of
wood, how are we gonna do anything?!
We can distract it for a while.
Are you joking?
Singapore's sending us
the Takao from their docks.
Huh? Wait?
As in the heavy cruiser?
Instead of scuttling it there,
they're going to let us use it again.
Well then that's great!
- The Takao is huge!
- So our orders are to do whatever it
takes to stall for time until it gets
here.
That's an American destroyer.
How come they can't deal with this?
I wouldn't count on it.
It's bad enough with the soviets as is,
the US risks furthering those
tensions if they do anything.
For little things like this,
they'd rather us handle it on our own.
I wouldn't call this little.
And plus, all we've got
- is a thirteen millimeter gun.
- Which is exactly why
they said we should us a
few mines we've recovered.
Ah ha!
That's why we're the ones
that got called out here.
Of course.
They needed a team that could
scavenge their own weapons locally.
They also ordered us not to tell anyone
about the creature or what it is that
we're doing.
And there it is.
Their favorite, the gag order.
This country never changes.
I wonder if it can.
Alright, it's my turn.
Here.
Thank you.
Try not to push
yourself too hard, Shiki-san.
I know, I can't help it if
this really is Godzilla.
I know the feeling.
When I think about
the things that happen in the war
I have a hard time sleeping.
I have to avenge them.
But then I remember
how terrifying that thing was.
We only have a pair of those,
one of which is for an emergency.
What's the matter?
Look at that.
There's way more fish
than there was back on Odo.
Sound the alarm!
Godzilla's gotta be close!
So it's coming, huh?
Hey Kid!
Get ready to drop
those mines in, alright?!
- Roger!
- Shikishima!
- Get on the gun!
- We should retreat.
We don't stand a chance
fighting it like this.
- If we leave now we can make it to land.
- No, we should wait here
and see how it acts first.
Doc, go stand aft and
call out anything you see.
- Captain please!
- Hey Kaishinmaru, you fellas copy?
They say it's gonna show soon.
Get ready to land a big one.
Roger that. Hope you don't
mind us taking all the credit.
- Like hell they will.
- We need to go!
If we run now, the Takao
won't make it in time.
After that,
where do you think this thing's gonna go?
I don't want to see Tokyo
in a sea of fire again.
Listen.
There's no way our ship can handle it!
I thought you said that you hated
the government telling you what to do!
Yeah, this doesn't change that!
The thing is,
if we don't step up,
who the hell's going to?
Actually,
let the Takao handle this one.
Hey Doc,
the engine!
I'm doing my best!
Shikishima!
Coming.
Hurry!
Help me with this!
Captain!
Yeah, I see it!
- Full throttle ahead!
- Got it!
Get it in the water, now!
It's too close,
there's no way we'll make it!
Drop the goddamn mine, Doc!
Alright, Kid!
- Hit it!
- Get ready boys!
Is it dead?
It's still on our tail!
Oh man oh man oh man oh
man oh man I'm gonna die!
Shikishima,
the gun!
Roger!
Shikishima!
Damn it!
It didn't do anything!
I have an idea,
what if we hit it in the mouth?
Reel! Reel!
Hurry! Quick! Get the line ready!
Drop it!
Mizushima!
Hit the switch!
Hey!
What's wrong?
You're kidding!
You two, get down!
Aagh!
Did it work, Doc?
No!
- It's the Takao!
- They're here.
They made it.
Wait, what's it doing?
Did we get it?
What's that?
Good, you're finally awake.
Where am I?
A Yokosuka Hospital.
They rescued us after the attack.
The Kaishinmaru
and Takao crews, did they make it?
Oh-
Godzilla.
That's right.
Easy.
Where did it go?
What happened?
It disappeared.
No one knows where it is.
Godzilla was headed
straight for the mainland.
We need to evacuate everyone,
or else this is going to be-
Not so fast.
The country has decided
not to tell the public.
Why wouldn't they tell
everyone they're in danger?
Because
they don't want things
to get out of control.
There's no time to
worry about any of that.
We need to begin
evacuating now, otherwise...
I understand what you're
saying and I agree with you.
But they don't want chaos right now.
Information control's the only
thing this country's good at.
I want to know what's going on with you.
Noriko, I'm fine.
It's got nothing to do with you.
Tell me what this thing
is that's tormenting you.
Ever since you took me in,
we've built a life together.
But even through all of that,
you still never really
let me into your life.
I know it has to be a heavy burden,
I wish you'd let me help you carry it.
During the war
I was-
In the war
I was a Kamikaze.
What?
The day I was sent out,
I pretended there was an
issue with my fighter.
So I flew to an island,
and landed for repairs.
These photos,
they-
they belonged to the the mechanics there.
That day,
they all died.
During the night,
a giant monster, like a
dinosaur, came ashore.
They asked me
to shoot at it with the gun on my fighter.
But I froze.
I just ran away again.
I let them die.
It was all my fault.
I let that thing kill everyone.
They were going to return
home to their families!
The monster...
Godzilla, that was its name.
The other day,
I saw it again.
And just like back then
I couldn't do anything to stop it.
I don't deserve this.
Why should I get the chance to live?
Koichi,
Everyone who survived the war,
they all deserve to have a life again.
Oh yeah, Noriko? And
how would you know that?
Because of my parents!
As they died in the fire,
they called out,
and said they wanted me to live.
Whatever happens,
whatever I do, I know
that I have to survive.
It's what keeps me going.
I can't.
Every night,
I hear them calling to me in my dreams.
"Come and join us already, " they say.
"Stop trying to cheat
death, and accept your fate."
Those are just nightmares.
- Illusions that you created for yourself.
- Sometimes-
Sometimes
I wonder
if I'm still alive.
What if I did die on that island?
And I'm rotting there.
You.
What if you and
Akiko- What if
the two of you are just
the final dreams of dead man. That's it!
It has to be!
- I know it!
- You are alive!
You are alive, Koichi.
Why can't you feel that?
Okay,
hold the spoon.
See.
Gently, gently.
Be patient.
Okay.
- Good. Now, stir the broth.
- Mhm.
You're doing great.
There,
it's done!
Yay!
And look.
I added your favorite, daikon.
Daikon!
Let me know how it tastes.
Okay.
You ready for a sip?
First the soup, then
the daikon.
I like it.
Is it hot?
- Don't burn your tongue.
- Uh huh.
Here.
Have another bite. How is it?
Mmm.
It's yummy!
You like it?
Am I really
allowed to dream again now?
Can I finally live my life?
Whoa.
Is that it?
Hey... Go call it in.
Hurry! Go!
Yes, Sir!
We just heard from an offshore patrol.
A giant creature is
heading toward Tokyo Bay.
Then it
should be here soon.
What is it?
I don't believe it.
You see something?
Look at it.
Have you ever seen anything like that?
This is Tokyo Bay Defense.
Preparing to detonate Zone Four.
We'll try to block the
creature from going any further.
It's closing in.
Almost there.
Breaching Zone Four now!
There it is!
Detonate!
That get it?
No good.
The mines didn't damage it!
Tokyo Bay blockade breached!
The monster is now
heading towards Shinagawa!
And it's gargantuan!
Ooh. Oop.
Ahh.
Thank you.
This is an emergency news broadcast.
Do not turn off your radio sets.
A giant creature has come ashore at
Tokyo Bay and is now heading toward Ginza.
To those in or around the region,
follow police instructions
and evacuate right away.
- This is not a hoax.
- Ginza?
I repeat-
Go! Go!
Oh, are you hurt? Here, come follow me!
It stopped?
Oh.
Hey. What's going on?
- What just happened?
- What was that?
Is that
Godzilla?
Ah-
Ah!
What we're witnessing is
a scene beyond belief.
We can only watch
as the massive creature destroys our city!
Each step it takes,
Ginza is crushed in its path.
And now it's begun tearing
apart the Nippon Theater!
The Theater, once a
beloved icon of the people.
Razed in mere moments.
All of this, right before our very eyes!
It's truly unbelievable.
The district that survived
catastrophic air raids during the war,
has been reduced
to little more than rubble.
Ah! And now
the monster!
It's approaching our position!
As it moves closer,
we can only stand back and watch as
its enormous head towers above us!
This could be the end!
It isn't safe for us to be here!
We're falling!
Run! Move. It's coming!
Get out of the way!
Get up!
Koichi!
We have to get out of here!
Come on!
Is it dead?
Did they get it?
What's happening?
How is it still standing?
Not again.
It's just like the Takao.
Noriko.
Noriko!
N-Noriko...
The damage caused by the giant
creature that came ashore yesterday
includes a total of some 30,
000 killed or injured, and over 20,
000 homes and buildings destroyed.
Rescue and recovery
operations are already underway,
but investigating the wreckage from
the creature's path carries the risk of
radiation, which has
severely impeded progress.
- Alright, yes.
- Just stand back, hey, stand back.
I can ask for you, alright?
Throughout Ginza, pieces of the massive
beast's flesh have been discovered, after
having apparently peeled
off during the attack.
Be quiet!
Police have cordoned off central Ginza
all day to collect samples of any
materials of unknown composition.
INVESTIGATION TEAM
IN MOURNING
I still can't believe it.
What about Akiko?
Hm?
We all pull together to
take care of each other.
Hey, Akiko.
Remember.
You're going to stay at my
house when Dad's away, okay?
When do I get to see Mom?
Mm.
Not right now.
She had to go away for a
little while for work.
So you'll be with your auntie for a bit.
Oh, Akiko. Come here,
sweetheart. It's okay.
It'll be alright.
Come here.
It's okay.
It's what I get, isn't it?
For what I did to you.
Of course.
Why did I think I could dream again?
Shiki-san.
Listen to me.
I'm part of a secret effort to
design a strategy to defeat Godzilla
led by a civilian force.
While I still don't know how viable it is,
I'd like you to be there.
SPECIAL DISASTER COUNTERMEASURE HEARING
Look at all these guys.
- Is everybody here-
- Yes.
- They're all ex-navy personnel.
- Is that so?
No kidding.
CAPTAIN KEYAKI, CAPTAIN YUKAZE,
CAPTAIN HIBIKI, CAPTAIN YUKIKAZE
My name
is Hotta.
I was the captain of the Yukikaze.
Thank you all for coming today.
As you're all aware,
Tokyo is facing an unprecedented threat.
A powerful creature, so enormous
that it can level an entire city. But
we lack defensive forces of our own.
Any GHQ intervention runs the risk
of further escalating US-Soviet tensions.
No one is coming to help us.
In short,
the only option is to
confront this monster
uniting our strengths as private citizens.
And that is why we've
gathered you all here today.
Fortunately,
after rounds of negotiations,
we secured four destroyers
slated for handover to the UN.
- Are you kidding?
- What are you saying?
They want us to fight.
That you want us to
get back on navy ships?
Just look at Ginza,
and what happened there.
- There's nothing we can do to beat that.
- Mhm.
Aren't those
boats all disarmed?
- What are you expecting us to do?
- That's right! You're dreaming!
- This is insane!
- Excuse me!
Could you all please calm down?
That's exactly what I'm here to explain.
Noda... -san?
I would like to-
Sorry.
I would like to start
with an introduction.
My name is Kenji Noda, and I
was a Navy technical officer.
What we know about this monster is
uh,
the local people of Odo Island
call it Godzilla, which
is how I'll refer to it.
This creature is virtually immune to
all types of conventional weaponry.
I've witnessed it first hand.
As soon as the Takao hit it with
it's heavy cannons, Godzilla began
regenerating itself back to health.
What can you do
against a thing like that?
Quiet, please.
Our plan will instead
use the unconventional.
Please,
allow us to show you what I mean.
The water in this tank has
the same salinity as sea water.
There's a wooden
Godzilla model on the surface.
Which you can see we've weighed
down just enough to float at the top.
If we were to pipe in
freon gas, what would happen,
once the model is enveloped in bubbles?
Ohh, now that's an easy one.
It'll stay afloat, even with the bubbles.
- What else could it do?
- That's obvious.
- Yeah, it'll float.
- Yes, that's what you would think.
It sank!
Look at that. Straight down.
The freon bubbles surround
the wooden model,
which prevents any contact with seawater.
The idea is to trap the
real Godzilla just like this,
and forcefully sink the
creature to the bottom of the ocean.
Hey.
Looks like the Doc carries a lot
of influence around here, huh?
Uh huh.
Now as you're all aware,
the Sagami Trench is over fifteen
hundred meters deep,
making it the single deepest
point in nearby waters.
And so, my plan
is to attach our freon gas
cylinders directly to Godzilla,
and fire them all at once,
surrounding it in a
bubble membrane like you saw.
The idea
is that it will sink to the bottom
of the Trench so rapidly,
the pressure will crush it to death.
We kill it with the power of the ocean.
I call it
Special Operation Wada Tsumi.
- Wada Tsumi?
- Couldn't it withstand the pressure if
it's already used to living in the sea, though?
The calculations show
that after twenty-five seconds,
every square meter should apply
fifteen hundred tons of pressure.
Even a creature that's
used to living in deep water
would be extremely unlikely to
survive that kind of pressure.
I have a question.
Can you guarantee this will kill Godzilla?
Godzilla is a creature about
which we know very little.
So theory has to drive our strategy.
You call that a plan?
Guns can't hurt it, as I have said, so,
- we think that this is our-
- Just tell us if this will kill it or not.
I can't guarantee that.
Shikishima!
This is our best shot!
Shiki-san.
Just hear me out, alright?
Now then.
Here is step one.
Two destroyers will corral Godzilla
and wrap it in a cable like this.
Running along the cable,
will be various points that have
freon gas cylinders attached to them.
Once it's wrapped tightly,
the gas can then be released.
This will force Godzilla to rapidly
plunge down fifteen hundred meters.
If it doesn't work, what happens then?
There's a contingency for that.
Gentlemen,
would you look into the courtyard?
Inflate!
- Wow.
- That was crazy.
Amazing!
Hello, I'm Itagaki from Toyo Balloon.
Let me explain what you just saw.
For this design, we chose to look at
the life rafts used in the war.
It's an inflatable flotation device.
CO2 is shot at high velocity
into air sacs for buoyancy.
Think of it like... a life preserver.
Once Godzilla hits the bottom
the device is inflated
Forcing it right back up to the surface.
Even if does initially withstand
the pressure, in these conditions,
it's highly unlikely to
survive decompression.
Even so,
I can't tell you that this
will work with total certainty.
But I think this is going
to be our only real chance.
I doubt that any of us want to be here.
Putting your lives on the line
after already surviving a war.
I know how unfair it sounds.
And yet,
we need your help.
We're in this alone.
No aid from any government.
Which means the future of this
nation is in your hands again.
I can't, sir.
It's too much.
I have a family.
Everyone here does.
Why do we have to risk our lives again?
Why does it have to be us?
We're always the ones
drawing the short straw.
We can't go back to the
things we were doing in the war.
He's right, it's not fair.
Quiet, please.
Please.
Listen carefully.
We aren't conscripting you.
If you don't want to volunteer for this
then go back to your families.
None of us have the right
to stop any of you.
- Hey.
- What?
He's gonna leave.
Hold on.
You too?
I have a question.
Does this plan of
yours mean certain death?
Of course it doesn't.
Okay.
Well those odds are better than the war.
I guess that's true.
- That's right.
- Someone has to do it, right?
Who else is gonna get this done?
We need these ships, and
that means we need sailors.
- I agree.
- He's right.
What do you say?
Are we in, boys?
My friends.
Thank you.
Hear, hear!
That was a surprise.
Finding out our good ol Doc was
the one behind this crazy plan.
Well, I've had a direct
encounter with Godzilla.
Because of that,
they suggested that I take the lead.
Ah, that makes sense. That's why
they wanted us there too, isn't it?
So,
You think Godzilla will return?
After that last attack,
we can assume that
Godzilla has added Tokyo to
its new "territory" of sorts.
Which would mean
in the worst case, it
could return within ten days.
You think that soon?
I heard you set up
radiation-detecting buoys all over.
We can't just rely on our
sight to figure out where it is.
Yeah, still though,
you really think it's going to
walk into your trap just like that?
- Well, that's the thing.
- What, you don't have a plan?
Well yes, of course I do.
Who do you think you're dealing with?
We have underwater speakers
used for acoustic minesweeping.
We use the speakers to play the recordings
made of Godzilla's voice during its
last attack.
- Godzilla's voice?
- Yeah.
So it'll show up
thinking it has another
territorial competitor to deal with.
- Hopefully.
- Hopefully?
You can't just rely on hope.
And what was that
"flotation device" thing?
I just don't see how that'll work
on something as big as Godzilla.
I'd like to see you
think of something else.
I know!
What about pulling it
up using the destroyers?
You insane? They couldn't do that.
Godzilla weighs around
twenty thousand tons.
That's far too heavy for two destroyers.
Oh.
In short, Doc, I think your plan
has a lot of holes in it.
Well if you're just gonna complain,
why don't you come up with a better one?
Noda-san.
If I asked you for a figher
could you get me one?
A fighter?
If it does decide to come ashore,
then I think I could use my
guns to draw it out to the bay.
But I thought all the Japanese fighters
were decommissioned after the war.
Besides, even if I could,
it shoots out that heat ray as well.
Flying so close to it like that,
- you'd be risking your life.
- I don't care what the risks are!
And besides, a good fighter is going to
outrun and outmaneuver any of our boats.
Are you asking us to help you with this
because you really think it's going to
work?
Or are you just trying to die?
I think you're drunk.
I think you just want to avenge Noriko.
What's so wrong with that?
You waited to long.
Why the hell didn't you marry that
girl when you had the chance, huh?
You knew how she felt, didn't you?
Don't you think I also wanted that?
Then why didn't say anything to her?
Because I couldn't.
My war isn't over yet.
Is it true?
- You found a plane?
- Yeah.
However, it is a bit unique.
It was developed at the end of the war.
A short-range interceptor
know as the Shinden.
Built to utilize fast hit and run tactics.
It can hit speeds of
over four hundred knots.
It's a canard design,
with four thirty millimeter guns,
it can outmaneuver almost anything.
A true marvel of aeronautical innovation.
The fighters like this one here,
were never deployed before the surrender.
Towards the end of the war,
they were all kept here for storage.
Until eventually, they were
forgotten about entirely.
Since then, they've just sat here to rust.
This one's in pretty bad shape.
It's not airworthy.
Not yet.
Well, you see, that's the issue.
We need a top mechanic.
Or,
an engineer that really knows
their way around a fighter.
Actually,
I know just the person.
Let's see. An Ex-Odo
Island detachment mechanic...
- Sosaku Tachibana, you said?
- Right.
Tachibana, Tachibana,
let's see. Tachibana, let's see.
It looks like we don't
have a current address.
I understand.
We're getting hit hard with all
sorts of requests like this one.
It could take quite a bit of
time for us to find anything.
You don't understand. I need to
speak with him as soon as I can.
That's too bad. I'm sorry, I
don't know what else I can do.
- Sir, please!
- What?
I'm begging you!
The country's future depends on it!
Oh, it does, I'm sure.
But I can't do the impossible.
- So sorry.
- Ah-
Hold on.
Tachibana.
Do you know where he was
posted before he got to Odo Island?
Can you at least tell me that?
TO MR. WADA
I've already asked everywhere I can.
- Oh.
- But this Tachibana fellow,
he's proving to be
quite hard to track down.
Oh good.
- Well, thank you for coming.
- We can find someone else to help
- us get the plane up in the air.
- That's forty-one yen.
Think.
- Do you have any other leads?
- More?
- Please just wait a little longer.
- Yes please.
I don't know why you're
being so insistent, Shiki-san.
Godzilla could come back
soon, we can't be wasting our-
It's got to be Tachibana, alright?!
I'm sure he'll get the
message soon, he has to.
Wait for him, please.
T- Tachibana.
T- Tachibana-san!
It really is you!
What the hell are all these letters about?
Wait.
The Odo Island massacre was my fault?
I'm the one who let those men die?
What are you talking about?
I'm sorry.
I needed you to find me.
And sending those
was the one thing I knew
would get under your skin.
How dare you?!
The monster that attacked Ginza...
Was the same one from Odo.
It was Godzilla.
We have a fighter
we're gonna use it to try and kill it.
And I need your help to fix it.
That's why I had to find you.
We need a mechanic who
can get it ready to fly.
That's why I wrote all
of those stupid letters.
Please forgive me!
Forget it. You're on your own.
Why would I ever help you?
Tachibana!
Please, wait. Tachibana!
Please don't go!
Tachibana!
I need you to do something for me!
Something...
something I know that only you can do.
The Takao's guns did nothing,
but I detonated a mine in its
mouth and it actually hurt it.
I think we can kill it if we find
a way to hit it from the inside!
You mean...
Put explosives in the rig
and fly directly into it's mouth so we
can finally kill it once and for all.
A Kamikaze.
The war isn't over yet.
Not for me, or for you.
Ahhhh...
I thought you said you just fell down.
- Agh-
- You had to hit yourself pretty
hard for it swell up that much.
It's embarrassing,
I ended up getting pretty drunk.
I barely remember anything.
Well considering you found
Tachibana after looking so hard,
I think you deserved
to celebrate a little.
A canard, huh?
I didn't think that they
had actually finished one.
Tachibana-san.
You made it. Thank you all for coming!
Hello, you must be Mr. Tachibana.
Look at that.
Must be one of the
Shinden class interceptors, huh?
Yes.
This one wasn't finished.
You think you can make it fly?
We'll do everything we can
to get make that happen.
We really appreciate it.
Good luck.
Alright, let's pick it up!
Get those crates on, now!
- Yes, Sir!
- Hey!
Get moving boys!
What's wrong?
You need to lighten up a little
there, Doc, it ain't good for morale.
I know that this was my idea, and yet
I still worry that for everything to work,
we'll need some kind of miracle to happen.
I know you're worried.
But to get a miracle,
you don't just stand by and wait for one.
Yes, you're right.
Take a look out there.
These guys know.
They aren't naive.
They understand they're putting
their lives at risk to do this.
And yet...
Their faces. They're bright and beaming.
That's because they know, this time, they
have a chance to make a real difference.
A real difference?
Ah.
In the war, we were used
to suffering every day.
But now,
we get to do good again.
Hurry up!
Make some room.
This just came in.
East of Hachijo Island...
Thirty three point one degrees North,
One forty point oh-one degrees East...
Geiger readings from multiple
detection buoys, about an hour ago.
Followed by
here
and here.
Godzilla is on its way.
- It's happening.
- Are we ready?
If it continues at this current rate,
Godzilla is expected to
arrive at the Sagami Trench
at approximately eleven
hundred hours tomorrow.
That means
we need to leave port right
at oh eight hundred hours.
Oh eight hundred.
Itagaki.
Your flotation device.
It'll be ready by then, right?
We should be there on the destroyers.
The final three hours will be critical.
- As engineers, we want perfection.
- I can't ask that.
And you could get caught up
in our fight against Godzilla.
The four of us have seen war, too.
Then everyone,
you should all go home.
Spend as much time as you can
with your families tonight.
Are you saying that we
should prepare them?
We all know that
for too long, this country
has treated our lives far too cheaply.
Tanks with insufficient armor.
Poor supply chains,
leading to starvation and disease causing
the most casualties during the war.
Fighter planes,
built without ejection seats,
which should be the bare minimum.
And finally,
kamikaze and suicide attacks.
Those are the reasons why, this time,
I want this citizen-led effort of ours
to be one that aims to
sacrifice no lives at all!
Because this next battle,
isn't about a fight to the death.
This battle is a fight
to live for our future.
Mm.
Alright, yes! Okay!
Let's do this!
Finally, tomorrow's the day.
Look at me, I'm shivering.
You're not going, kid.
- What do you mean?
- We're not gonna have any use for
you while your arm is like that.
Shikishima still gets to go.
Hold on, is this cause
I wasn't in the war?
- I can help you guys, I'm not useless!
- Look, kid.
Not being part of a war
is something to be grateful for.
I still want to defend my country too.
I don't understand why I don't get to go!
I thought we were a team,
that we were in this together!
Don't do this!
I want to be there with you!
Let me go! Please!
We're leaving this
country's future with you.
Captain!
Noda-san!
Good. Good.
Now bring it up.
Steady the front end. Good. Careful now.
A little bit lower.
Easy.
Akiko,
you ready?
- Okay.
- Here.
- Mm?
- Here you go.
I'll see you soon.
And,
Sumiko?
Thank you for everything.
Akiko.
You have fun with Auntie?
Yeah, I had fun.
That's good.
She's nice, huh?
S'that for me?
Thank you.
Akiko?
Hm?
There's us,
but who's this?
Is that mom?
Uh huh, mom's right there.
Look at that.
You're so talented.
What's wrong, why are you sad?
What is it?
Akiko.
It's okay.
Hey.
Hey, I'm here.
I'll always be here for you.
TO SUMIKO
Tachibana-san.
Is it ready?
Give me a minute.
There's the bomb you asked for.
Two machine guns, a hundred forty kilos.
A hundred twenty rounds, eighty kilos.
And we pulled out the main
fuel tank dropping four hundred.
Instead, you've got a number
twenty-five bomb in the nose,
and a number fifty in the fuselage.
Good. Now I have a chance to
finally make things right.
The funny thing is
I guess there's a part
of me that wants to live.
No one on the Odo
Island crew wanted to die.
But they didn't get to go home.
None of them.
They didn't get the chance to
because that monster killed them.
I know what I have to do.
This was drawn by a girl
named Akiko.
I want there to be a future for her.
Godzilla has to be stopped.
I'll do whatever it takes.
Well, then I guess you're finally ready.
Now
this is important.
Down here.
This is the safety for the bomb.
Pull it right before
you fly into its mouth.
Got it?
One more thing.
Oh-
Akiko.
Why are you out here?
Are you alone?
Look.
LOOK AFTER AKIKO.
USE THIS MONEY FOR HER.
Is it from Daddy?
Huh?
From Daddy?
Here.
It's alright.
Don't worry, sweetheart.
Kuroshio Twelve here.
We see floating deep see fish.
Thirty-five point oh-three North.
One-thirty-nine point forty-one East.
Godzilla has been sighted in Sagami Bay!
The underwater decoy team is deploying
the audio lure to bring it to the
target area!
- We better go.
- Mm.
- Looks like Mizushima finally gave up.
- I feel bad, but it's for his own good.
To be honest,
I didn't want Shikishima flying, either.
I'm worried that he could
do something reckless today.
And I don't want that.
He's got Akiko.
He can't just leave her alone.
The underwater decoy
team has been destroyed!
Godzilla has entered Sagami Bay!
Wada Tsumi ships, leave port at once!
Look.
There it is.
It's already here?
Godzilla's through the final line
of defense! It's heading for shore!
That's my signal.
Mm.
Get out there and put an end to this war.
Shikishima.
Everyone, leave port now!
Repeat. All Wada Tsumi ships are to finish
boarding and leave port immediately!
What now Doc?
It's too late to do anything.
No, we just have to keep going.
The Sagami Trench
is key. There's no where else
suitable to execute our plan.
But we need to be there.
We have to rely
on Shiki-san to lure it out to us!
- Yes sir!
- Let's do this.
Let's go!
Noda-san!
Shikishima's calling!
Shikishima here.
I've taken off successfully.
I'll start to lure
Godzilla to the target area.
Good. We'll make sure
that we're ready for you.
- Get to the target area quickly.
- Shikishima!
You better not try anything!
I won't let you
abandon Akiko, you got that?
Do you hear me, Shikishima?
Nothing.
What is he thinking?
One, two...
Telegram!
Oh.
- Yes?
- Mrs. Shikishima?
A telegram for you.
Oh.
Look it that.
Nice job, Shikishima.
It worked. And Godzilla
doesn't look too happy, does it?
Now's our chance.
It's up to us now.
All ships,
- prepare for battle!
- You heard him, battle positions!
Battle positions!
Freon cylinders ready!
Forty-six centimeter shells
ready! Flotation switch ready!
Cables look good!
Circuits are a go.
We're ready when you are.
We're turning on the power!
Release the safety device!
That's right.
I see you.
Alright, Team one.
Get out there.
- Team one, attack!
That's it.
Hold on!
Holy hell.
So that's its heat ray.
The ships will never survive this.
Listen, sir.
We should evacuate
while there's still time.
No. At least not yet.
We need to start while we still can.
Doctor,
It'll shoot the heat ray again!
Not for a while.
Once Godzilla fires its
heat ray, it has to recharge.
We have to go!
Start the operation, now!
Wada Tsumi is a go!
That's an order!
Freon and flotation units, stand by:
On my order:
Begin launch!
Shiki-san!
Crane fully deployed!
Roger!
We need to maintain our course.
Call the Hibiki!
Hibiki,
maintain course!
We're going to take a little damage.
Stay at our current speed!
Hibiki closing in,
Four meters!
Two meters!
- Brace for impact! Hold on!
- Brace for impact!
Crossing successful!
Full speed ahead!
Full speed!
Good.
Good!
- Go get the switch ready!
- On it!
What's it doing?
We ready?
We're close.
Ready when you are, Doc.
Hit it, Captain!
Roger that!
The freon!
Got it!
Depth:
Twelve hundred meters!
Thirteen hundred!
- Fourteen hundred!
- That's it!
- Fourteen hundred and fifty meters!
Fifteen hundred!
That's our target depth!
We've reached it.
We did it!
We sunk Godzilla!
Was that it?
Guess the big guy won't quit.
- We need to go to plan B.
- Yes, hurry.
That's it, now rise!
Depth:
Twelve hundred meters!
Eleven hundred!
One thousand!
The cables have stopped!
The current depth is eight
hundred and three meters!
What's wrong?
Why's it stopping?
It bit through it.
Hibiki,
we're going to have to pull Godzilla up!
Maximum speed, ninety degrees!
But sir
even with both ships, we
don't have enough power.
I don't give a damn!
Give it all you can, gentlemen.
- Yes, Sir!
We can't keep going
the cranes won't hold much longer!
It's not working!
Greetings! This is the
Fujimaru from Yokohama Eisen.
You boys look like you
could use some help!
I know that voice.
Mizushima here.
Captain, are you there?
Kid,
is that you?
Yeah!
This is the Koeimaru from Toyo Balloon.
- Need a hand?
- And the Nikkomaru from
Yokohama Eisen! At your service!
The Daisan Shiokazemaru. Here to help.
The Tetsuyumaru here.
And the Nanamimaru.
Minamimaru here.
- Kisshomaru.
- Junseimaru.
Wakamaru.
Heimitsumaru.
Tenyumaru.
- Kaiomaru.
- Hyuga.
- Choukamaru.
- Shoseimaru.
Taramaru.
Yasakamaru.
How's this for useless?
We're here to save your asses.
Let's do this!
Look at that!
I guess he decided not
to listen to us huh?
Alright, tugboats.
Ready?
We've got to pull up Godzilla!
All ships, pull!
It's working.
Godzilla is climbing again!
Alright,
- there it is. Ya like that?
- Current depth:
Seven hundred meters!
Go on, that's it, that's it.
He's still standing!
Evasive actions!
We need to go!
Hey. What's he doing?
Wait, is he- is-
Don't do it!
Stop it, kid.
Shikishimaaaaaaaaaaa!
Shikishima.
He flew into it's mouth.
Look!
Right there!
There he is.
There he is!
Pilot...
ejected! He's alive!
I added this too.
It's an ejection seat.
You pull that lever to activate it.
Live.
Tachibana-san.
Shikishima!
Hey!
Over here!
You did it!
Nice work, kid.
Sumiko.
Koichi!
Koichi.
Akiko.
What?
You're doing great.
Can this war of yours
finally be done?
Mm-
Mm. Yes.